# AMT - Peds (Asthma Management Tool - Pediatrics)
## Introduction 
Without a doubt mobile technology is one of the fastest growing topics and could be considered unruly technology. Because of its persuasive and popular nature, mobile technology has become a module of many consumers informatics, disease management and telemedicine strategies. Some would argue that healthcare professionals and consumers have entered the mhealth (mobile health) era in which mobile technology will play a much larger role in healthcare. Mhealth is a subcategory of ehealth (electronic health), which can be defined as the “delivery of healthcare services via mobile communication devices”. Wearable health IT is used to measure, track, and trend various health parameters. In the past ten years, a variety of new devices and sensors have appeared that monitor exercise, sleep, heart rate and variability, respiratory rate, hydration, etc. These could be considered part of the mobile technology armamentarium.

Asthma is a respiratory condition marked by spasms in the bronchi of the lungs, causing difficulty in breathing and usually results form an allergic reaction. About 6 million children in the US from ages 0-17 have asthma. That is considered to be every 1 in 12 children. 
## Project Description
Create an application in which parents, home caregivers, and older children can use to better manage pediatric asthma. Children diagnosed with asthma are prescribed by their provider "as needed" treatment regimens based on their symptom severity and frequency of onset. The program will prompt users to answer a short questionnaire when/if a child is exhibiting symptoms and based on their responses the directions for the recommended treatment plan will populate to prompt their prescribed optimal course of management. The output will return the recommended treatment option, such as their prescribed “as needed” medication management or based on severity or length of symptoms would notify the patient to contact their provider or seek immediate medical care. The software would function to provide timely clarification of when pediatric patients should initiate their "as needed" treatment. Though patients and caregivers often receive discharge education and treatment plans written up, their confidence in understanding of the treatment plan and when to initiate can be inconsistent. Given limitations in access to care and reaching ones’ care team for clarification, it can be a timely and stressful process, and duplicate work for the clinic. For this program, the pediatric patient's treatment plan is fed into the software manually or as a drop down - based on clinical practice guidelines. (Optimally this will be entered in the software via the clinic's patient portal but the scope of this program at this time will not be connected to a patient portal for the treatment plan clarity). The clinic’s future ability to prepare an automated protocol within the patient’s portal that would feed to this software’s output could enhance patient outcomes, track symptoms, and simultaneously when patient’s begin acute treatment for their asthma. 

## Goal
The goal of this project is to bridge the gap in “as needed” asthma treatment management for children. Encounters with providers and care teams can often be brief, yet full regarding all that’s discussed. Though discharge education and treatment plans may be discussed or even provided on a discharge sheet before departing a visit, there’s not always 100% confidence in “when to do what” from the standpoint of managing pediatric asthma. Leaving a message with the clinic or attempting to get in with the provider can delay care that parents and home caregivers can otherwise have at their fingertips. This seeks to alleviate the stress over questioning when the right time to initiate the appropriate inhaler or steroid is, or when the severity of symptoms necessitates seeing a provider straight away (urgent care, ER, or acute PCM visit), by directing patients to the best care right away. Ultimately, as a result of the direction our software recommends, we anticipate patients will experience better health outcomes associated with asthma, and better track how someone’s asthma has been managed to assist providers in adjusting future treatment plans. Optimally, our software will allow providers to see what symptoms and treatments a patient has experienced between physical visits, providing valuable information to assist in provider follow-up visits.

## Team members
Bryana Higginbotham, Joli Miracle, and Jasmine Williams

## Resources used
Asthma symptoms and management zones: https://www.aafa.org/asthma-symptoms/?gclid=Cj0KCQiA37KbBhDgARIsAIzce16ctdU7kiIq8DD3lXboG_eS3b383vV9bvWTGGnuQZdn1OImEqGBoUwaArjCEALw_wcB
